Add load on demand (#884)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/collectionview/load-on-demand/overview.md

---
title: Overview
page_title: .NET MAUI CollectionView Documentation - Load On Demand
description: Learn how to load data on demand in the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI CollectionView automatically or manually.
position: 0
slug: collectionview-load-on-demand
tags: loading data, .net maui, maui, collectionview, load data on demand
---

# .NET MAUI CollectionView Load Data on Demand

> The Load Data on Demand feature optimizes the performance of the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI CollectionView control when operating with a large amount of items. The load on demand functionality allows you to load incremental data&mdash;either by a Button (manual) or by scrolling towards end (automatic).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Load Data on Demand feature optimizes the performance of the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI CollectionView control when operating with a large amount of items. The load-on-demand functionality allows you to load incremental data&mdash;either by a Button (manual) or by scrolling towards end (automatic).
```

## Configuration

Use the following configuration options to:

1. Control the `LoadOnDemand` feature by using the following properties:

> * `IsLoadOnDemandEnabled` (`bool`)&mdash;Specifies whether the load on demand functionality is enabled. The default value is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `IsLoadOnDemandEnabled` (`bool`)&mdash;Specifies whether the load-on-demand functionality is enabled. The default value is `false`.
```

* `LoadOnDemandMode` (enum of type `Telerik.Maui.LoadOnDemandMode`)&mdash;Specifies how the operation for loading more items is triggered. The available options are:
	* (Default) `Automatic`&mdash;The data is requested automatically when the user scrolls by the end of the CollectionView.
	* `Manual`&mdash;A button is rendered at the end of the CollectionView. The data is requested explicitly by pressing the button.

2. Control the number of pre-loaded items

You can control the minimum number of items loaded ahead by using the `LoadOnDemandBufferItemsCount` (`int`) property. The defined value indicates at which point the additional items will start loading. The default value is 10. 

>tip The `LoadOnDemandBufferItemsCount` works with `LoadOnDemandMode.Automatic`.

3. Customize the appearance of the automatic and manual UI element.

You can customize the appearance on the automatic and manual elements by using the following templates:

* `AutomaticLoadOnDemandTemplate` (`DataTemplate`)&mdash;Specifies the template of the view visualized for `Automatic` loading.
* `ManualLoadOnDemandTemplate` (`DataTemplate`)&mdash;Specifies the template of the view visualized for `Manual` loading.

> For sample examples and templates explanation review the [LoadOnDemand Templates]({%slug collectionview-load-on-demand-templates%}) article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about the templates, including examples, review the [LoadOnDemand Templates]({%slug collectionview-load-on-demand-templates%}) article.
```

## Methods to Load Data on Demand

Use the following options to load data on demand:

> * Using the [`LoadOnDemandCollection`]({%slug collectionview-load-on-demand-collection%}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`LoadOnDemandCollection`]({%slug collectionview-load-on-demand-collection%})
```

> * Using the [`LoadOnDemandCommand`]({%slug collectionview-load-on-demand-command%}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`LoadOnDemandCommand`]({%slug collectionview-load-on-demand-command%})
```

> * Using the [`LoadOnDemand` event]({%slug collectionview-load-on-demand-event%}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`LoadOnDemand` event]({%slug collectionview-load-on-demand-event%})
```
